update documentation (#66)
owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer: README.md

The ownCloud Web DICOM Viewer app is an extension of [ownCloud Web](https://github.com/owncloud/web) to preview DICOM files (medical images and their corresponding metadata) in the browser. The preview of the medical images is based on MIT licensed [cornerstone3D](https://github.com/cornerstonejs/cornerstone3D).

## Table of Contents

* [Functionalities of DICOM Viewer Web Extension](#functionalities-of-dicom-viewer-web-extension)
* [Adding DICOM Viewer to Your oCIS Installation](#adding-dicom-viewer-to-your-ocis-installation)
  * [Adding DICOM Viewer to the oCIS Deployment Example](#adding-dicom-viewer-to-the-ocis-deployment-example)
  * [Manual App Installation](#manual-app-installation)
* [Build and Run DICOM Viewer for Development](#build-and-run-dicom-viewer-for-development)
* [Contributing to DICOM Viewer Web Extension](#contributing-to-dicom-viewer-web-extension)
* [Copyright](#copyright)

## Functionalities of DICOM Viewer Web Extension

> The current release allows to preview .dcm files within oCIS and display their corresponding metadata in a sidebar on request. It offers image manipulation operations such as zoom in and out, rotation, flipping, colour inversion and reset on the image preview. The app UI is implemented in a responsive manner and adapts the size of the image preview and the way how metadata is displayed to the screen size of the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current release allows previewing .dcm files within oCIS and displaying their corresponding metadata in a sidebar on request. It offers image manipulation operations such as zoom in and out, rotation, flipping, colour inversion and reset on the image preview. The app UI is implemented in a responsive manner and adapts the size of the image preview and the way that metadata is displayed to the screen size of the device.
```

<img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/1.png" alt="app functionalities" style="width:48%; height:auto;"> &nbsp; &nbsp; <img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/4.png" alt="display of metadata" style="width:48%; height:auto;">

> _The extension allows to preview a DICOM image and it's most important metadata. On request, all corresponding metadata of the file are displayed in the sidebar._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_The extension allows previewing a DICOM image and it's most important metadata. On request, all corresponding metadata of the file are displayed in the sidebar._
```

<img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/2.png" alt="app functionalities" style="width:48%; height:auto;"> &nbsp; &nbsp; <img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/3.png" alt="display of metadata" style="width:48%; height:auto;">

> _The extension allows to zoom, rotate and flip the preview of the image. Inverting the colors of the preview is also supported._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_The extension allows zooming, rotating and flipping the preview of the image. Inverting the colors of the preview is also supported._
```

If you write "The extension allows the user to zoom, rotate..." then that works in English. But if "the user" is omitted we need to say "zooming, rotating..."

Author: will add "the user". I think these are some interactions the user does more actively/consciously, where as previewing is just what is expected :)

   # For more details see https://github.com/owncloud/web-extensions/blob/main/README.md
   
   <list of all web extensions>
   
   DICOMVIEWER=:web_extensions/dicom-viewer.yml
   ```

3. Append `${DICOMVIEWER:-}` to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable at the very end of the last line of the `.env` file. This variable combines the configs of all the components that need to be loaded.

   `COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-} ... <variables of lots of other configs that are added to docker compose> ... ${DICOMVIEWER:-}`

   After appending `${DICOMVIEWER:-}`, your `.env` file should look like this:
   ```
   ## IMPORTANT ##
   # This MUST be the last line as it assembles the supplemental compose files to be used.
   # ALL supplemental configs must be added here, whether commented or not.
   # Each var must either be empty or contain :path/file.yml
   COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-}${TIKA:-}${S3NG:-}${S3NG_MINIO:-}${COLLABORA:-}${MONITORING:-}${IMPORTER:-}${CLAMAV:-}${ONLYOFFICE:-}${INBUCKET:-}${EXTENSIONS:-}${UNZIP:-}${DRAWIO:-}${JSONVIEWER:-}${PROGRESSBARS:-}${EXTERNALSITES:-}${DICOMVIEWER:-}
   ```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Update the `csp.yaml` file located in `/config/ocis/csp.yaml` according to the description in https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/apps.json#L374 

```

Done! Have fun using the [functionalities of the DICOM Viewer web extension](#functionalities-of-dicom-viewer-web-extension) on your installation!

### Manual App Installation

1. Download the zip file from the [releases page](https://github.com/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/releases).
2. Extract the zip file to the `apps` directory of your oCIS server. The `apps` directory is set using the `WEB_ASSET_APPS_PATH` environment variable.

#### Prerequisites

> - Supported oCIS and Web Versions: oCIS (>= 6.2.x), Web (>= 9.x.x)

Author: @Salipa-Gurung in the section on build and run for development below we mention different approaches for loading the extension depending if it's oCIS 5.0.0 or >= 5.1.0 which sounds to me like the app runs even on version 5.0.0. 

Is there a difference in which versions are supported for deployment and development?

Reviewer 2: During development we can make app work on oCIS 5.0.9 and >=5.1 as well but for deployment we kept minimum oCIS version `6.2.0` https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/0138d4fd966fed78658e813eba6929fd4e4496aa/webApps/apps.json#L379C1-L379C30.

Author: Thanks for the info!

   # For more details see https://github.com/owncloud/web-extensions/blob/main/README.md
   
   <list of all web extensions>
   
   DICOMVIEWER=:web_extensions/dicom-viewer.yml
   ```

3. Append `${DICOMVIEWER:-}` to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable at the very end of the last line of the `.env` file. This variable combines the configs of all the components that need to be loaded.

   `COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-} ... <variables of lots of other configs that are added to docker compose> ... ${DICOMVIEWER:-}`

   After appending `${DICOMVIEWER:-}`, your `.env` file should look like this:
   ```
   ## IMPORTANT ##
   # This MUST be the last line as it assembles the supplemental compose files to be used.
   # ALL supplemental configs must be added here, whether commented or not.
   # Each var must either be empty or contain :path/file.yml
   COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-}${TIKA:-}${S3NG:-}${S3NG_MINIO:-}${COLLABORA:-}${MONITORING:-}${IMPORTER:-}${CLAMAV:-}${ONLYOFFICE:-}${INBUCKET:-}${EXTENSIONS:-}${UNZIP:-}${DRAWIO:-}${JSONVIEWER:-}${PROGRESSBARS:-}${EXTERNALSITES:-}${DICOMVIEWER:-}
   ```

> 4. Update the `csp.yaml` file located in `/config/ocis/csp.yaml` according to the description in https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/apps.json#L374 

Author: ```suggestion

4. Update the `csp.yaml` file located in `/config/ocis/csp.yaml` according to the description in https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/apps.json#L374 
```

   # For more details see https://github.com/owncloud/web-extensions/blob/main/README.md
   
   <list of all web extensions>
   
   DICOMVIEWER=:web_extensions/dicom-viewer.yml
   ```

3. Append `${DICOMVIEWER:-}` to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable at the very end of the last line of the `.env` file. This variable combines the configs of all the components that need to be loaded.

   `COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-} ... <variables of lots of other configs that are added to docker compose> ... ${DICOMVIEWER:-}`

   After appending `${DICOMVIEWER:-}`, your `.env` file should look like this:
   ```
   ## IMPORTANT ##
   # This MUST be the last line as it assembles the supplemental compose files to be used.
   # ALL supplemental configs must be added here, whether commented or not.
   # Each var must either be empty or contain :path/file.yml
   COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-}${TIKA:-}${S3NG:-}${S3NG_MINIO:-}${COLLABORA:-}${MONITORING:-}${IMPORTER:-}${CLAMAV:-}${ONLYOFFICE:-}${INBUCKET:-}${EXTENSIONS:-}${UNZIP:-}${DRAWIO:-}${JSONVIEWER:-}${PROGRESSBARS:-}${EXTERNALSITES:-}${DICOMVIEWER:-}
   ```

> 4. Update the `csp.yaml` file located in `/config/ocis/csp.yaml` according to the description in https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/apps.json#L374 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Update the `csp.yaml` file located in `/config/ocis/csp.yaml` by adding the 
`"id": "com.github.owncloud.web-app-dicom-viewer"` block as shown in the [webApps/apps.json](https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/apps.json) example.
```
This suggestion makes the block more clear and does btw not reference any line number which might change

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. Yes this is much better as line numbers might change when more apps are added to that file

### Adding DICOM Viewer to the oCIS Deployment Example
oCIS provides some [deployment examples](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/deployments/examples/) including detailed configuration step by step guides for [local production setup](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/depl-examples/ubuntu-compose/ubuntu-compose-prod.html) and [deployment of Infinite Scale on the Hetzner Cloud](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/depl-examples/ubuntu-compose/ubuntu-compose-hetzner.html).
In both cases, it only takes three very small and simple steps to add the DICOM Viewer Web Extension to the [`ocis_full` deployment example](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/deployments/examples/ocis_full/) of your own installation:

1. Navigate to the `/opt/compose/ocis/ocis_full` folder of your installation and copy [`dicom-viewer.yml`](https://github.com/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/blob/main/dicom-viewer.yml) into the [`web_extensions`](https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/tree/master/deployments/examples/ocis_full/web_extensions) subfolder.

> 2. Add `DICOMVIEWER=:web_extensions/dicom-viewer.yml` to the `## oCIS Web Extensions ##` section of the `.env` file of your installation (file is located in `/opt/compose/ocis/ocis_full`).
> 
> Your `.env` file should now look like this:
> 
> ```
> ## oCIS Web Extensions ##
> # It is possible to use the oCIS Web Extensions to add custom functionality to the oCIS frontend.
> # For more details see https://github.com/owncloud/web-extensions/blob/main/README.md
> 
> <list of all web extensions>
> 
> DICOMVIEWER=:web_extensions/dicom-viewer.yml
> 
> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
2. Add `DICOMVIEWER=:web_extensions/dicom-viewer.yml` to the `## oCIS Web Extensions ##` section of the `.env` file of your installation (file is located in `/opt/compose/ocis/ocis_full`).\
Your `.env` file should now look like this:
   ```
   ## oCIS Web Extensions ##
   # It is possible to use the oCIS Web Extensions to add custom functionality to the oCIS frontend.
   # For more details see https://github.com/owncloud/web-extensions/blob/main/README.md
   
   <list of all web extensions>
   
   DICOMVIEWER=:web_extensions/dicom-viewer.yml
   ```
````

> 3. Append `${DICOMVIEWER:-}` to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable at the very end of the last line of the `.env` file. This variable combines the configs of all the components that need to be loaded.
> 
> `COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-} ... <variables of lots of other configs that are added to docker compose> ... ${DICOMVIEWER:-}`
> 
> After appending `${DICOMVIEWER:-}`, your `.env` file should look like this:
> 
> ```
> ## IMPORTANT ##
> # This MUST be the last line as it assembles the supplemental compose files to be used.
> # ALL supplemental configs must be added here, whether commented or not.
> # Each var must either be empty or contain :path/file.yml
> COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-}${TIKA:-}${S3NG:-}${S3NG_MINIO:-}${COLLABORA:-}${MONITORING:-}${IMPORTER:-}${CLAMAV:-}${ONLYOFFICE:-}${INBUCKET:-}${EXTENSIONS:-}${UNZIP:-}${DRAWIO:-}${JSONVIEWER:-}${PROGRESSBARS:-}${EXTERNALSITES:-}${DICOMVIEWER:-}
> 
> ```

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
3. Append `${DICOMVIEWER:-}` to the `COMPOSE_FILE` variable at the very end of the last line of the `.env` file. This variable combines the configs of all the components that need to be loaded.

   `COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-} ... <variables of lots of other configs that are added to docker compose> ... ${DICOMVIEWER:-}`

   After appending `${DICOMVIEWER:-}`, your `.env` file should look like this:
   ```
   ## IMPORTANT ##
   # This MUST be the last line as it assembles the supplemental compose files to be used.
   # ALL supplemental configs must be added here, whether commented or not.
   # Each var must either be empty or contain :path/file.yml
   COMPOSE_FILE=docker-compose.yml${OCIS:-}${TIKA:-}${S3NG:-}${S3NG_MINIO:-}${COLLABORA:-}${MONITORING:-}${IMPORTER:-}${CLAMAV:-}${ONLYOFFICE:-}${INBUCKET:-}${EXTENSIONS:-}${UNZIP:-}${DRAWIO:-}${JSONVIEWER:-}${PROGRESSBARS:-}${EXTERNALSITES:-}${DICOMVIEWER:-}
   ```
````
This will make it render inline with the list item

<img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/1.png" alt="app functionalities" style="width:48%; height:auto;"> &nbsp; &nbsp; <img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/4.png" alt="display of metadata" style="width:48%; height:auto;">

_The extension allows to preview a DICOM image and it's most important metadata. On request, all corresponding metadata of the file are displayed in the sidebar._

<img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/2.png" alt="app functionalities" style="width:48%; height:auto;"> &nbsp; &nbsp; <img src="https://github.com/owncloud/awesome-ocis/blob/main/webApps/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/screenshots/3.png" alt="display of metadata" style="width:48%; height:auto;">

_The extension allows to zoom, rotate and flip the preview of the image. Inverting the colors of the preview is also supported._

> ## Adding DICOM Viewer to your oCIS installation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Adding DICOM Viewer to Your oCIS Installation
```

As oCIS administrator, you can add custom web applications for your users. By adding the DICOM Viewer to the oCIS WebUI, you enable your users to take advantage of the [functionalities of this web extension](#Functionalities-of-the-DICOM-Viewer-Web-Extension).

Have a look at the ownCloud Infinite Scale Deployment documentation to learn how to [extend the WebUI with apps](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#extend-web-ui-with-apps). You will find instructions how to [load custom applications](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#loading-applications) into your installation and get a better understanding of the web extension [application structure](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#application-structure) and [application configuration](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#application-configuration).

---

DICOM Viewer's `manifest.json` (referenced in `application structure`) can be found [here](public/manifest.json).

> ---

Author: do we want to mention this? Seems to be quite straight forward that the manifest can be found here

Author: maybe remove?

```suggestion
```

> 

Author: TODO:
- find out if `apps.yaml` file is needed (seems to be optional)
- if so, provide corresponding file and link to it?
- see draft PR https://github.com/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/pull/67

Author: @mmattel from our understanding yaml is optional. We have been running our web extensions on a server following the installation instructions given here respectively in the README of the other extensions we've developed without any yaml file

### Prerequisites

#### Supported oCIS and Web Versions
- oCIS (>= 6.2.x)
- Web (>= 9.x.x)

> #### Supported architectures:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Supported Architectures:
```

    `amd64`

### App Installation

1. Download the zip file from the [releases page](https://github.com/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/releases)  
2. Extract the zip file to the `apps` directory of the oCIS server. The `apps` directory is set using the `WEB_ASSET_APPS_PATH` environment variable.

> ## Build and run DICOM Viewer for development

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Build and run DICOM Viewer for Development
```

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js `v18`](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [pnpm `v8`](https://pnpm.io/)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

> ### 1. Install dependencies:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 1. Install Dependencies:
```

```bash
pnpm install
```

> ### 2. Build the extension

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 2. Build the Extension
```

Build the extension using watch for development.

```bash
pnpm build:w
```

> ### 3. Load the extension

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 3. Load the Extension
```

We can load the app into the oCIS server in two different ways, depending on the version of oCIS:

> #### 1. For oCIS 5.0.0 (Separate extension server)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### 1. For oCIS 5.0.0 (Separate Extension Server)
```

---

DICOM Viewer's `manifest.json` (referenced in `application structure`) can be found [here](public/manifest.json).

TODO:
- find out if `apps.yaml` file is needed (seems to be optional)
- if so, provide corresponding file and link to it?
- see draft PR https://github.com/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/pull/67

---

### Prerequisites

#### Supported oCIS and Web Versions
- oCIS (>= 6.2.x)
- Web (>= 9.x.x)

#### Supported architectures:
    `amd64`

### App Installation

1. Download the zip file from the [releases page](https://github.com/owncloud/web-app-dicom-viewer/releases)  
2. Extract the zip file to the `apps` directory of the oCIS server. The `apps` directory is set using the `WEB_ASSET_APPS_PATH` environment variable.

## Build and run DICOM Viewer for development

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js `v18`](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [pnpm `v8`](https://pnpm.io/)

> - [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

Author: @Salipa-Gurung this is taken from presentation viewer documentation, can you please check if this is correct?

Reviewer 2: this works for dicom viewer app also.

Author: thanks for confirming!

As oCIS administrator, you can add custom web applications for your users. By adding the DICOM Viewer to the oCIS WebUI, you enable your users to take advantage of the [functionalities of this web extension](#Functionalities-of-the-DICOM-Viewer-Web-Extension).

Have a look at the ownCloud Infinite Scale Deployment documentation to learn how to [extend the WebUI with apps](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#extend-web-ui-with-apps). You will find instructions how to [load custom applications](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#loading-applications) into your installation and get a better understanding of the web extension [application structure](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#application-structure) and [application configuration](https://doc.owncloud.com/ocis/next/deployment/webui/webui-customisation.html#application-configuration).

---

DICOM Viewer's `manifest.json` (referenced in `application structure`) can be found [here](public/manifest.json).

---

### Prerequisites

#### Supported oCIS and Web Versions

> - oCIS (>= 6.2.x)

Author: below we mention different approaches for loading the extension depending if it's oCIS 5.0.0 or >= 5.1.0 which sounds to me like the app runs even on version 5.0.0

- **Supported architectures:**\
  `amd64`

## Adding DICOM Viewer to your oCIS installation

> As administrator of an environment you can add custom web applications for your users. By adding DICOM Viewer you enable your users to take advantage of this web extension.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As oCIS administrator, you can add custom web applications for your users. By adding the DICOM Viewer to the oCIS WebUI, you enable your users to take advantage of this web extension.
```

Copy `docker-compose.override.example.yml` to `docker-compose.override.yml`.

> ### 4. Run oCIS server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 4. Run oCIS Server
```

```bash
docker compose up
```

access oCIS through the following URL: [localhost:9200](https://localhost:9200)

> ### Docker Tags and respective Dockerfile links

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Docker Tags and Respective Dockerfile Links
```
